S0201
SELECTED POPULATION PROFILE IN THE UNITED STATES 

Although the American Community Survey (ACS) produces population, demographic and housing unit estimates, for 2010, the 2010 Census provides the official counts of the population and housing units for the nation, states, counties, cities and towns.


Supporting documentation on code lists, subject definitions, data accuracy, and statistical testing can be found on the American Community Survey website in the Data and Documentation section.

Sample size and data quality measures (including coverage rates, allocation rates, and response rates) can be found on the American Community Survey website in the Methodology section.


Source:  U.S. Census Bureau, 2010 American Community Survey


Explanation of Symbols:
An '**' entry in the margin of error column indicates that either no sample observations or too few sample observations were available to compute a standard error and thus the margin of error. A statistical test is not appropriate.
An '-' entry in the estimate column indicates that either no sample observations or too few sample observations were available to compute an estimate, or a ratio of medians cannot be calculated because one or both of the median estimates falls in the lowest interval or upper interval of an open-ended distribution.
An '-' following a median estimate means the median falls in the lowest interval of an open-ended distribution.
An '+' following a median estimate means the median falls in the upper interval of an open-ended distribution.
An '***' entry in the margin of error column indicates that the median falls in the lowest interval or upper interval of an open-ended distribution. A statistical test is not appropriate.
An '*****' entry in the margin of error column indicates that the estimate is controlled. A statistical test for sampling variability is not appropriate. 
An 'N' entry in the estimate and margin of error columns indicates that data for this geographic area cannot be displayed because the number of sample cases is too small.
An '(X)' means that the estimate is not applicable or not available.


Data are based on a sample and are subject to sampling variability. The degree of uncertainty for an estimate arising from sampling variability is represented through the use of a margin of error. The value shown here is the 90 percent margin of error. The margin of error can be interpreted roughly as providing a 90 percent probability that the interval defined by the estimate minus the margin of error and the estimate plus the margin of error (the lower and upper confidence bounds) contains the true value. In addition to sampling variability, the ACS estimates are subject to nonsampling error (for a discussion of nonsampling variability, see Accuracy of the Data).  The effect of nonsampling error is not represented in these tables.


See the Glossary for more information on the definition of the following population groups:  Arab, Arab/Arabic, European, Subsaharan African, African, American, and All Other Hispanic or Latino.


Regions, subregions, and country code list.


Data for the households, families, occupied housing units, owner-occupied housing units, and renter-occupied housing units lines refer to the specified race, Hispanic or Latino, American Indian or Alaska Native, or ancestry of the householder shown in the table.  Data in the "Total population" column are shown regardless of the race, Hispanic or Latino, American Indian or Alaska Native, or ancestry of the person.


The Census Bureau introduced a new set of disability questions in the 2008 ACS questionnaire. Accordingly, comparisons of disability data from 2008 or later with data from prior years are not recommended. For more information on these questions and their evaluation in the 2006 ACS Content Test, see the Evaluation Report Covering Disability.


There were changes in the edit between 2009 and 2010 regarding Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and Social Security.  The changes in the edit loosened restrictions on disability requirements for receipt of SSI resulting in an increase in the total number of SSI recipients in the American Community Survey.  The changes also loosened restrictions on possible reported monthly amounts in Social Security income resulting in higher Social Security aggregate amounts.  These results more closely match administrative counts compiled by the Social Security Administration.


The Census Bureau introduced an improved sequence of labor force questions in the 2008 ACS questionnaire.  Accordingly, we recommend using caution when making labor force data comparisons from 2008 or later with data from prior years.  For more information on these questions and their evaluation in the 2006 ACS Content Test, see the "Evaluation Report Covering Employment Status" at http://www.census.gov/acs/www/Downloads/methodology/content_test/P6a_Employment_Status.pdf, and the "Evaluation Report Covering Weeks Worked" at http://www.census.gov/acs/www/Downloads/methodology/content_test/P6b_Weeks_Worked_Final_Report.pdf. Additional information can also be found at http://www.census.gov/hhes/www/laborfor/laborforce.html.


Industry codes are 4-digit codes and are based on the North American Industry Classification System 2007. The Industry categories adhere to the guidelines issued in Clarification Memorandum No. 2, "NAICS Alternate Aggregation Structure for Use By U.S. Statistical Agencies," issued by the Office of Management and Budget.


Occupation codes are 4-digit codes and are based on Standard Occupational Classification 2010.


The health insurance coverage category names were modified in 2010.  See ACS Health Insurance Definitions for a list of the insurance type definitions.


While the 2010 American Community Survey (ACS) data generally reflect the December 2009 Office of Management and Budget (OMB) definitions of metropolitan and micropolitan statistical areas; in certain instances the names, codes, and boundaries of the principal cities shown in ACS tables may differ from the OMB definitions due to differences in the effective dates of the geographic entities.


Estimates of urban and rural population, housing units, and characteristics reflect boundaries of urban areas defined based on Census 2000 data. Boundaries for urban areas have not been updated since Census 2000. As a result, data for urban and rural areas from the ACS do not necessarily reflect the results of ongoing urbanization.


